Add `lazer updates` wiki article (#11675)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Community/Video_series/lazer_updates/en.md

## History

Documentation of osu!(lazer) updates started off in the early days as blog posts written in [peppy's personal blog](https://blog.ppy.sh/) and the [osu!next Tumblr page](https://www.tumblr.com/osunext). However, these posts were often overlooked by casual users, and in order to increase public awareness of the ongoing development, consequent updates were later announced in the [osu!(lazer)-specific changelog entries](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer), [peppy's Twitter account](https://twitter.com/ppy/), and finally the "lazer updates" video series.

Starting from [June 2023](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-06-22-osulazer-updates-june-21-2023) onwards, all "lazer updates" videos are released together along with their corresponding "osu!(lazer) updates" newspost for further visibility.

> ## List of episodes

Reviewer: thoughts on adding a column for newspost links? would be a nice touch.

Author: sure, why not

> | No. | Title | Topics covered | Newspost |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| No. | Title | Topics covered | News post |
```

Author: @Hiviexd e from my previous experiences `newspost` are written this way iirc...

http://osu.ppy.sh/home/search?mode=wiki_page&query=newspost

Reviewer: if you look closer you'll notice that those are either old articles or one-offs, a query on "news post" shows many more recent results, in addition to other maintainers already enforcing "news post" instead of "newspost" in PRs.

https://osu.ppy.sh/home/search?mode=wiki_page&query=news%20post

Author: alright

| 24 | [path to lazer ranked play](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=crkT0aaowKQ) | The state of play in osu!(lazer), [game infrastructure](https://github.com/ppy/osu-infrastructure), game balance, [hit window mechanics](/wiki/Gameplay/Judgement/osu!mania) in osu!mania, general user experience, performance optimizations | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-09-08-osulazer-updates-the-path-to-ranked-play) |
| 25 | [lazer updates - September 24, 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SWEE8XlGluI) | Issues yet to be resolved for ranked play in osu!(lazer), [sliderhead](/wiki/Gameplay/Hit_object/Slider/Sliderhead) behaviour, mod select screen, various bug fixes | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-09-25-osulazer-updates-september-24) |
| 26 | [lazer updates - October 8, 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pspL5SLs80k) | Rate adjustments for the Double Time and Half Time mod, spinner mechanics, new elements for the "argon" skin, legacy scoring systems, performance optimizations | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-10-08-osulazer-updates-october-8) |

> | 27 | [lazer updates (and some hidden mechanics) - October 26, 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlWKKA-ltZY) | [Slider leniency](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#sliders-and-spinners), [floating point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating-point_arithmetic) calculation, spinner overhaul, [grid snapping](/wiki/Beatmapping/Grid_snapping) for osu!mania and osu!taiko | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-10-26-osulazer-updates-october-26) |

Reviewer: it's something completely different from the regular grid snap (that's focused on visual object placement), this is a grid for actual snaps, and it already existed in mania prior.

opted for the wording from the news post.

```suggestion
| 27 | [lazer updates (and some hidden mechanics) - October 26, 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SlWKKA-ltZY) | [Slider leniency](/wiki/Beatmap/Overall_difficulty#sliders-and-spinners), [floating point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating-point_arithmetic) calculation, spinner overhaul, beat snap grid for the osu!taiko editor | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-10-26-osulazer-updates-october-26) |
```

| 28 | [lazer updates - November 14, 2023](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7MYYjseY-Do) | Further preparations for ranked play in osu!(lazer), adjustments to the "argon" skin, touchscreen detection, osu!mania for mobile devices, [audio samples](/wiki/Storyboard/Scripting/Audio) | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-11-14-osulazer-updates-november-14) |

> | 29 | [you can hand-draw sliders in lazer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FwH-4C3VIM) | Freehand slider creation, skin layout editor, game balance tweaks, spectator mode | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2023-11-30-osulazer-updates-november-30) |

Reviewer: spectator mode is present in both `#3` and `#29`, so i'm not sure if it's either a mistake, or if they need slightly better clarification on what changed

Author: yeah, reworded and clarified

| 36 | ["the editor sucks"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BnhcyVT_yrk) | Various quality-of-life changes for the editor, pp support for the Traceable mod, tweaks for various mods, playfield border, in-game rank display, [layers in storyboarding](/wiki/Storyboard/Scripting/General_Rules#layers), updates on the upcoming "daily challenge" system | [(↗)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-06-25-osu-lazer-updates-june-25-2024) |

## Other related videos

The following videos are not part of the main "lazer update" series, but are otherwise related to osu!(lazer) or the development of osu! in general.

| No. | Title | Description |
| :-: | :-- | :-- |
| 1 | [what is lazer?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ut_SOreClcc) | ::{ flag=US }:: [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) gives a brief introduction as to what osu!(lazer) is, what makes it different to the stable client, and what comes next for the game. Also serves as a channel trailer for the [osu! YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@osugame). |

> | 2 | [talking about last month's osu! featured artists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YXpBTgjD0kY) | ::{ flag=US }:: [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) recaps all the new [featured artists](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists) that were announced in the month of November 2022. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2 | [talking about last month's osu! featured artists](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YXpBTgjD0kY) | ::{ flag=US }:: [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) recaps all the new [Featured Artists](/wiki/People/Featured_Artists) that were announced in the month of November 2022. |
```

| 3 | [why you don't play lazer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZR4ewKxWNKc) | ::{ flag=US }:: [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) and ::{ flag=AU }:: [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2) reflect on the common reasons people are reluctant about migrating to osu!(lazer) while walking across the shores of Japan. |
| 4 | [talking about osu! world cup's grand finals tiebreakers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0B6TyWML0zg) | ::{ flag=US }:: [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) and ::{ flag=GB }:: [mangomizer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1893718) discuss how the [World Cup](/wiki/Tournaments#official-world-cups) tiebreakers and other [osu! originals](/wiki/osu!_originals) are being produced over the years. |

> | 5 | [what's going on with mapping](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OM_RBwsqmUY) | ::{ flag=US }:: [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) implores on the discourse around the mapping/modding community as well as the repurposing of the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team). |

Reviewer: "repurposing" is a bit too strong of a word for this

```suggestion
| 5 | [what's going on with mapping](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OM_RBwsqmUY) | ::{ flag=US }:: [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) implores on the discourse around the mapping/modding community as well as recent changes within the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/Nomination_Assessment_Team). |
```
